<section class='intro'>
<section class='page title'>
<div>

h1(headline). We cannot be silenced.

The Philippines is a nation of democracy, and no law can get in the way of the power of its citizens. Here's how you can speak your mind and influence the decisions of our legislators.

p(action). <span class='inset'>"Be heard":#senators</span>

</div>
</section>

<section class='page understand'>
<div>

h2(headline). _0_ Understand the issue

<div class='info'>
*Read up!* Here are some links to get you started on some research online.
</div>

 * "The Cybercrime Bill":ra10175-docs This is the contents of the cybercrime bill (reformatted by "bafox of reddit":bafox). This is also available from the gov.ph site "here":ra10175-original.
 * "Google News":gn compiles the list of cybercrime-related news articles as they happen.
 * "Internetfreedom.ph":ifph has a list of senators who have voiced their intentions to amend the law, and those who haven't yet.
 * "PIFA.ph":pifa The Philippine Internet Freedom Alliance organizes efforts related to stopping the cyber martial law.
 * "Reddit":reddit Reddit had a discussion on the cybercrime law, and includes a detailed lay-person analysis of its contents.

[ra10175-docs]https://docs.google.com/document/pub?id=1b_LlLSY9u-HsGd0eqijq0fSx_THIcbSBucOSxFmCdow
[ra10175-original]http://www.gov.ph/2012/09/12/republic-act-no-10175/
[bafox]http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/10slkp/the_philippines_my_country_has_just_passed_a_law/c6gegmk
[gn]https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&gl=ph&tbm=nws&q=cybercrime&oq=cybercrime
[pifa]http://pifa.ph
[ifph]http://internetfreedom.ph
[reddit]http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/10slkp/the_philippines_my_country_has_just_passed_a_law/c6gdi9p



</div>
</section>
</section>

<section class='page email' id='email'>
<div>

h2(headline). _1_ Send an email

<div class='info'>
Pour your thoughts out into a letter. Be as emotional as you need to be, but don't make any personal attacks. Here's a template to get you started. Make sure to change it up to add your thoughts in!
</div>

<div class='letter'>
*Dear Senator,*

Great day! I'm writing to you about the recent issues about the _online libel_ provision of of the cybercrime law.

Senator, I fear for the future of our country. I think the _online libel_ provision can jeopardize our democracy. I want to live in a country where the citizens are free to praise the politicians, or point out their flaws, without fear of their words being taken against them.

Please, I urge you to support abolishing this provision from the law, for the sake of citizens like me and for our nation.

Yours truly,
_Rico Sta. Cruz_

p(action). "Send your own message":#senators
</div>

</div>
</section>
<section class='page phone' id='phone'>
<div>

h2(headline). _2_ Phone in your concerns

<div class='info'>
All senators have phone lines open to the public! Use them to speak up your concerns and ask for their support.
</div>


<section class='sub convo'>
h3. Introduce yourself.

bq(tl). "Hello! Ako po si Rico Sta. Cruz ng Makati. Tumatawag po ako tungkol sa isyu ng _online libel at ang cybercrime bill_. Gusto ko po'ng malaman ang posisyon ni senador ukol dito, at magpahayag ng aking adhikain."

bq(en). "Hello! I'm Rico Sta. Cruz of Makati. I'm calling about the issue of _online libel and the cybercrime bill_. I'd like to learn about the senator's position on this issue, and perhaps tell you about my stance on it for your consideration."

A member of the senator's staff is going to answer your call. Be polite and don't be shy! They take these kind of calls often. Feel free to speak in either English or Tagalog.

Ask who you can speak to about asking about the issue and your concerns.
</section>

<section class='sub convo'>
h3. Understand the issue.

bq(tl). "Ano po ang posisyon ni senador tungkol dito? Sya po ba ay su-suporta sa pag-apila ng batas na ito?"

bq(en). "How does the senator feel about this issue? Will he/she be supporting the amendment of this law?"

Ask about the senator's stance on the issue. It may be different from what you already know about.
</section>

<section class='sub convo'>
h3. Speak your mind.

bq(tl). "Sa tingin ko ay ang _online libel_ provision ng cybercrime bill ay makaka-sira ng demokrasya ng ating lipunan. Bilang isang botante, ako po ay natatakot para sa kinabukasan ng ating bayan. Gusto ko po sanang mahingi ang suporta ni senador sa pag apila ng batas na ito, para sa mga mamayanang tulad ko at para sa ating bayan."

bq(en). "I think the _online libel_ provision on the cybercrime law jeopardizes the democracy of the country as a whole. As a voter, I fear for the future of our country. I urge the senator to support abolishing this provision from the law, for the sake of citizens like me and for our nation."

Ask for the support of the senator to support your cause. Present your arguments rationally. Refrain from making personal attacks; instead, be rational and stress why this issue is important to you.
</section>

<section class='sub follow-up'>
h3. Be sure to follow up!

If you call, send an email a few days later as well just to be sure that your call isn't forgotten.

p(action). "See phone directory":#senators
</section>

</div>
</section>

<section class='page write'>
<div>

<div class='map'>
<iframe width="425" height="350" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&amp;source=s_q&amp;hl=en&amp;geocode=&amp;q=post+office+philippines&amp;aq=&amp;sll=13.175771,123.178711&amp;sspn=14.489407,22.82959&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;hq=post+office&amp;hnear=Philippines&amp;ll=13.175771,123.178711&amp;spn=10.335728,7.089032&amp;t=m&amp;output=embed"></iframe>

h2(headline). Write some letters

The senator's offices have addresses you can write to. This can be more effective than an email.

To send mail, simply visit your nearest post office. You will need to buy a postage stamp (very cheap) to attach to your envelope.

p(action). "Find post offices":offices

[offices]https://maps.google.com/maps?q=post+office+philippines&hl=en&ll=12.790375,121.68457&spn=14.511674,22.82959&sll=13.175771,123.178711&sspn=14.489407,22.82959&hq=post+office&hnear=Philippines&t=m&z=6
</div>

</div>
</section>

